# Design report

 TicTacToe is a game that is often played with paper and pencil. The purpose of this project is to design a software to play the game.

## The Game

 The game is a designed as a console program that two human players play together. They choose who is player one and player two and take turns choosing a number from 1-9 that represents a field on the game board. The chosen field is filled up with an ‘X’ for player one and an ‘O’ for player two. If one of the players manages to fill a row of three with his symbol he has won the game and the game ends. If all nine fields have been filled up with either ‘X’ or ‘O’ and neither player managed to get three in a row, there is a draw and the game ends.

## Noun Identification

  From the description in previous section (The Game) these nouns are subtracted as potential class names;
 * Game
 * Players
 * Turn
 * Console
 * Program
 * Human
 * Numbers
 * Game board
 * Fields
 * Winner
 


## Classes
From the noun identification method above these 4 classes have been chosen

### GameBoard
```javascript
Public class DisplayGameBoard
    Public void displayTicTac(Char[] board)
```

```javascript
Public class GameStatus
    Public boolean checkWinner(Char[] board)
	Public boolean gameIsOver()
	Public boolean draw()
    Private boolean checkWinnerHorizontal()
	Private boolean checkWinnerDiagonal(Char[] board)
	Private boolean checkWinnerVertical(Char[] board)
	Private boolean isEmpty(int input)
```

```javascript
Public class GameRunner
    Private Char[] board = new Char[9];
	Private void fillField(int input, string marker)
		board[input-1] = marker;
	Private boolean isEmpty(int input)
    Private int getInput
    Private boolean checkInput(int input)
        Integer is valid (1-9)
		isEmpty(int input)
        Return true
        Return false
    Public Char[] getBoard();    
    Public void movePlayer(string marker)
        do
		Int input = getInput();
        While (checkInput(int input))
        fillField(int input, string marker)
        displayBoard(Char[] board)
```

```javascript
Public class TicTacToe
    Private GameRunner runner
    Private GameStatus board
    
	Main()
    	while(!GameStatus.gameIsOver())
        	runner.movePlayer(“X”)
			if(GameStatus.checkWinner(runner.getBoard())
       			runner.makeWinner(“X”)
       			break
			Else if(GameStatus.Draw())
    			println(It’s a draw!)
    			break
			runner.movePlayer(“O”)
			if(GameStatus.checkWinnermove.getBoard())
    			runner.makeWinner(“O”)
    			break
```

## Game logic
setja inn mynd 
    |X|
--+--+--
   |O |
--+--+--
   |    |O


Collaboration rules
Use Github.com as git repository
Meetings are held through google hangouts
Messages and other communication is through the facebook group


General testing….


Coding rules
This section describes the general coding rules the group will work after.
Source Files
    Each Java file contains only a single public class or interface.
Naming
Class names are written in UpperCamelCase and are typically nouns
Method names are written in lowerCamelCase and are typically verbs.
Variable names are written in lowerCamelCase and describe the variable.
Constants are written in all uppercase letters and words are separated by underscores.
Commenting
    All Java files begin with a c-style comment listing the class name, version information, creation date etc.
    
/**
 * ## Large headline
 * ### Smaller headline
 *
 * This is a comment that contains `code` parts.
 *
 * Code blocks:
 *
 * ```java
 * int foo = 42;
 * System.out.println(foo);
 * ```
 *
 * Quote blocks:
 *
 * > This is a block quote
 *
 * lists:
 *
 *  - first item
 *  - second item
 *  - third item
 *
 * This is a text that contains an [external link][link].
 *
 * [link]: http://external-link.com/
 *
 * @param id the user id
 * @return the user object with the passed `id` or `null` if no user with this `id` is found
 */






/**
* Classname / methodname
*
*Version information
*
*Date created
*
*Copyright notice ???
*
*@param       for each parameter used in the method or class
*@return    if applicable stating what the function returns
*/
Formatting
Each time a new block is opened the indent increases by one tab.
Braces are used with all if, else, for, do, while statements. Even when the body is empty or contains only a single statement.
Example:
for (int i; i < 0; i++) {
     a = i;
}
Each comma and semicolon is followed by a space, excluding end of each line.
Above all methods there should be a short summary explaining its function and its parameters.
Each line should not exceed 120 characters, after this the line should be wrapped.
 




https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/checkstyle_plugin.html




GitHub Workflow
The project group will use gitflow workflow where the git repository is stored at github.com under 
https://github.com/draumateymid/TicTacToe. The workflow is structured with a master branch that is updated only from the branch develop. Each developer will create a new branch with a descriptive name, the developer publishes this branch to a remote repository and while working on the feature the developer makes frequent pulls from develop branch. When the feature is considered finished the developer merges changes from the develop branch, runs all tests needed before creating a pull request to apply changes from the feature branch to the branch develop.
No member is allowed to merge the content of his/her pull request into the develop branch. In fact the setup of the repository on github permits the developer creating the pull request to merge it.


Remote branches should not be deleted, this preserved the branching history.



/*** 
void displayTicTac
void Xmove
void Omove
int Xinput
int Oinput
void getInput
bool checkWinnerDown
bool checkWinnerCross
bool whoIsWinner
Int main()


