### Development manual

## Collaboration
The teams meetings are held through google hangouts. Messages and other communication is through the facebook group and the work scheduled is on google drive.

### GitHub
The project group will use gitflow workflow where the git repository is stored at github under 
https://github.com/draumateymid/TicTacToe. The workflow is structured with a master branch that is updated only from the branch develop. Each developer will create a new branch with a descriptive name, the developer publishes this branch to a remote repository and while working on the feature the developer makes frequent pulls from develop branch. When the feature is considered finished the developer merges changes from the develop branch, runs all tests needed before creating a pull request to apply changes from the feature branch to the branch develop.

No member is allowed to merge the content of his/her pull request into the develop branch. In fact the setup of the repository on github permits the developer creating the pull request to merge it. Remote branches should not be deleted, this preserved the branching history.


## Coding rules
This section describes the general coding rules the group will work after.

* Source Files: Each Java file contains only a single public class or interface.
* Naming: Class names are written in UpperCamelCase and are typically nouns
Method names are written in lowerCamelCase and are typically verbs.
Variable names are written in lowerCamelCase and describe the variable.
Constants are written in all uppercase letters and words are separated by underscores.
* Commenting: All Java files begin with a c-style comment listing the class name, version information, creation date etc. Each method is


## Formatting
Each time a new block is opened the indent increases by one tab.
Braces are used with all if, else, for, do, while statements. Even when the body is empty or contains only a single statement.
Example:
for (int i; i < 0; i++) {
     a = i;
}
Each comma and semicolon is followed by a space, excluding end of each line.
Above all methods there should be a short summary explaining its function and its parameters.
Each line should not exceed 120 characters, after this the line should be wrapped.


https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/checkstyle_plugin.html


## Testing
* Unit testing
* functional testing
* selenium
